Js doc (#296)
darwinia-network/darwinia-docs: docs/sdk/darwinia.js/Substrate API/overview.md

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Overview

[Darwinia.js](https://github.com/darwinia-network/darwinia.js) API library allows application developers to query Darwinia, Pangoro chain and interact with the chain's substrate interfaces using JavaScript. In this docs, we will look into how we can use some commonly code example to interact with Darwinia node using Darwinia.js API library.

### Dependencies

The library sample mainly depends on the following libraries:

- @polkadot/api The polkadot api library provides a Promise-style interface for performing related operations on the Darwinia chain

- ethers.js The ethers aims to be a complete and compact library for interacting with the Ethereum Blockchain and its ecosystem.

### Usage

Install libarries

```nodejs

yarn add @darwinia/api-options

```

Darwinia.js include Darwinia, Pangoro chain interfaces for developer to interact one of them. In this  you want to query and interact Darwinia node. Here is a config sample for using those node interfaces. we must configure **tsconfig.json** at compilerOptions section to apply type augmentation explicitly.

> 1. applying Darwinia Chain type augmentation in tsconfig.json

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Applying Darwinia Chain type augmentation in tsconfig.json
```

```json
{
  "compilerOptions": {
    "baseUrl": ".",
    "paths": {
      "@polkadot/api-augment": ["./node_modules/@darwinia/api-augment/index.d.ts"],
      "@polkadot/types-augment": ["./node_modules/@darwinia/types/interfaces/augment-types.d.ts"],
      "@polkadot/rpc-augment": ["./node_modules/@darwinia/rpc-augment/index.d.ts"],

>       "@poladot/types/lookup": ["./node_modules/@darwinia/types-augment/index.d.ts"]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      "@polkadot/types/lookup": ["./node_modules/@darwinia/types-augment/index.d.ts"]
```

    }
  }
}
```

> 2. applying Pangoro Chain type augmentation in tsconfig.json

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Applying Pangoro Chain type augmentation in tsconfig.json
```

``` json
{
  "compilerOptions": {
    "baseUrl": ".",
    "paths": {
      "@polkadot/api-augment": ["./node_modules/@darwinia/api-augment/pangoro/index.d.ts"],
      "@polkadot/types-augment": ["./node_modules/@darwinia/types/interfaces/augment-types.d.ts"],
      "@polkadot/rpc-augment": ["./node_modules/@darwinia/rpc-augment/pangoro/index.d.ts"],

>       "@poladot/types/lookup": ["./node_modules/@darwinia/types-augment/lookup/pangoro/index.d.ts"]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      "@polkadot/types/lookup": ["./node_modules/@darwinia/types-augment/lookup/pangoro/index.d.ts"]
```

    }
  }
}

```

####  Create API Instance

> You must first instantiate an API instance of Darwinia.js api. Create the wsProvider using the websocket endpoint of the Darwinia node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You must first instantiate an API instance of the darwinia.js api. Create the wsProvider using the websocket endpoint of the Darwinia node.
```

```typescript
// Import
import { ApiPromise, WsProvider } from '@polkadot/api';
...
// Construct with darwinia node endpoint
const wsProvider = new WsProvider('wss://rpc.darwinia.network');
const api = await ApiPromise.create({ provider: wsProvider });

// Do something
console.log(api.genesisHash.toHex());

```

> Due to darwinia has own substrate module and types, this mean developers are adding sepcific types for implementation as well. to close the gap, we have define types for different node spec versions. you could inject types by our **typesBundle** . let's change instantiate api instance to let Api know our types.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Due to darwinia has own substrate module and types, this means developers need to add these types. To close the gap, we have to define types for different node spec versions. you could inject types by our **typesBundle** . let's change instantiate api instance to let Api know our types.
```

Reviewer: "this mean developers are adding sepcific types for implementation as well." what's the meaning?

Author: The 'typesBundle' provide   developer a choice   to inject  storage type depend on runtime spec version.
